In busy harbours around the world, witnesses invited to this special work are going aboard ships with the Kingdom message.
It's a 24-7 economy, so you never know exactly when a ship arrives.
You have to be flexible in your schedule.
Just everything you can to meet the people there on board, especially when it is a return visit.
You try to do everything you can to meet that person again.
We check one website where all the ships are depicted on a map.
We check if some of them are return visits.
What nationalities are on board?
Once on the ship we go to the master room and then it's a little bit like a metropolitan witnessing.
We have like a table and we play some magazines over there.
We put a tablet over there with the website.
In the 80s we used a little cart behind our bicycles to bring all the 80 languages of literature to the sea ships.
Sometimes we would come home tired at 10.30, maybe 11.
And then there was a message on the answering machine of a sailor saying,
please Mr. Tideman, come to our ship because we're leaving in two or three hours and we desperately need spiritual food.
And we would go right back on our bikes with literature.
But in the winter time it was very hard because it was raining, it was very cold.
And we had to bike for one hour.
But then we came on the ship and then people were so nice and you were inside and then we could forget it.
The JW Language app also proves very valuable in our ministry.
When we have to wait for example in the master room for the crew to arrive,
we use it to practice certain greetings or expressions in their motor tongue.
The biggest challenge for us in the Harbourfield is a little bit like what I call the five minutes rule.
What will you say if you meet a person once in your life and you only have five minutes?
So what we have to do then is read a scripture, inform him about God's name,
give him a beautiful tract, show him a video,
all focus on the first five minutes and meet a person.
And if we see how they react to Jehovah's purpose to make this earth a paradise again
and that they would be able to be with their families, that is Jehovah's intention from the start.
That is very nice to see how they are comforted by the good news.
I have seen so many times how Jehovah cares for the sailors, how he helps them,
how he listens to their prayers.
Sometimes when I was coming from the ship, I couldn't sleep from all the excitement on the ship.
These are really the most beautiful years of my life.
I first got in touch with the trophy 1997 at Antwerp Harbour in Belgium.
When Prada Teni and Sister Nancy Scurry visited me.
One of the topics that touched his heart was the good news of the kingdom.
And I remember once he told us that his personal name, Tal-Alele, means good news.
He applied promptly with the alerts in his personal life,
and shortly thereafter he became an empathized publisher.
And after some time he preached with us together on the ships.
My love for the truth and the brotherhood got stronger.
I was baptized in 2000.
I now saving as a special pioneer on the island of Savai in Samoa.
I am grateful that the brothers who visited us at the talk carried out Jehovah's Witnesses with zealously and faithfully.
These brothers learn that harbour witnessing takes good planning and an adaptable spirit.
If there is a seaport in your area that could benefit from this form of ministry,
ask your congregation service committee what arrangement exists or it could be set up by your branch.